I have now had my PowerBook G4 667 MHz, 1024 RAM (yes - maxed out!)
And the etc refers to the gigabit eithernet (included), built in AirPort Card (included), long life battery and the excellent quality 15.2&quot; wide screen monitor we expect from Apple.
The system is excellent - and well worth the price.
The new graphics card is excellent for gaming with it's DDR RAM.
This is an excellent choice for the professional in any profession.
There is no PC notebook that compare to it.
I have had to call Apple support a couple of times and the response was quick and they are able to answer any questions I had.
Good Work Apple - Keep it UP.
This is an outstanding laptop to use.
The extra inch of screen makes most programs easier to use (you can put the OS X dock on the left or right), and it is a comfortable size to type on or carry.
This laptop is a significant jump in design from the previous, black, powerbook G3 laptops.
Apparently, the latest model has a slightly textured case, to prevent the chance of dropping it.
A one word review would suffice: "WOW!!!
"But, I will elaborate.....  :-)  This is the best laptop I've ever owned.
It is my fourth Macintosh is just under three years.
My first was a clamshell iBook.
I then owned a PowerBook G3 and an eMac G4 but decided that I wanted portability in my G4.
I bought this PowerBook G4 667 and never looked back.
This was the most intelligent purchase I've ever made in the computer world.Apple designed a truly wonderful products.
It is speedy, beautiful, and functional.
I could not ask for more in a notebook computer.
I'm now a dedicated and loyal user.
667 MHz G4 (up from 500 MHz)2.
667 MHz 256 KB L2 cache (changed from 250 MHz 1 MB L2 cache)3.
133 MHz system bus (up from 100 MHz)4.
512 MB PC133 SDRAM until end of 2001 (up from 256 MB PC100)5.
Quieter 30 GB hard disk (up from 20 GB)6.
6X DVD-ROM drive (up from 4X)7.
ATI Mobility RADEON AGP 4X graphics with 16 MB DDR RAM (changed from ATI Mobility Rage AGP 2X with 8 MB SDRAM) -- much greater performance, higher resolution when driving external display8.
Improved I/O for faster FireWire throughput (as much as 2X greater bandwidth)10.
A/C power connector glows then connected to the outlet13.
Higher capacity battery (55.3-watt-hour vs. 50), but similar overall battery life15.
Improved fit and finish (e.g., battery holder, touchpad)16.
Keyboard layout change (2nd Command key, elimination of 2nd Option key)18.
Includes OS X.1 and OS 9.2 (changed from OX X and OS 9.1)
I own several PC's (ugh) and several Macs.
This Titanium Book is the ultimate.
If you are familiar with Apple's superior OS, and Industrial Designs, you are still in for a delight!Even my diehard WinTel friends drool!
They just hafto touch it, and use it, if they're lucky.You want it, you deserve it.
Don't feel guilty, it'll pay for itself!Pete
I've had my PowerBook G4 since January.
I was shopping around for a new computer and came across this beauty.
Up to that point I had been strictly a PC user.
However, I was sold on this computer.
Sure, it took a little getting used to a new OS, but that only took a few days.When I bought this computer, I splurged.
I brought the RAM to 512 MB, I bought an iPod (5GB) and an airport station, plus Office X.
Yes, it cost me a small fortune, but it's still worth it.
I love this computer.This computer is FAST (even at 667 MHz)!!
It never seems to slow down.
I can play a DVD in a window and be working on email or in Excel or on a website and it keeps up.
OS X is incredibly stable and has only crashed once in 7 months.
Oh yeah, it's also great looking.
I sit at Starbucks with it and constantly get people asking me about it.Why only 4 stars?
Battery life doesn't seem to be that great, even after turning the brightness down on the screen.
However, Apple has recently tweaked the DVD player and I can play a three hour DVD with no problems.
For cross-country trips, I bought an extra battery.
Also, the keyboard presses up against the screen when it's closed and has made some marks on the LCD display.If you can afford it, I HIGHLY recommend an iPod.
This is by far the best toy I have ever bought.
It's absolutely beautiful, both the hardware and the operating system (OS X).
I bought it primarily to edit digital video of my new baby.
It's elegantly simple to download the video into iMovie and extremely intuitive to edit the video.
I upgraded the hard drive to 30 gigs and the RAM to 256 Megs in order to give myself some head room.
I thought I might not like the small screen but it seems not much less viewing area than my 17&quot; desktop monitor.
I bought the iBook instead of the Titanium PowerBook because the PowerBook does not offer the DVD/CD-RW combo drive.
I wanted to be able to burn the videos I made to CD as well as backup and archive files on my hard drive.
I bought a mouse (Apple's optical mouse) beacuse I generally don't like trackpads.
The single complaint I have is that the USB port is on the left side of the machine and I have to run the cord for the mouse under the computer to use it with my right hand.
Otherwise I am extremely satisfied with my purchase.
still no comment  not happy.
I don't want to say anything bad.
So I was just saying and no, comment .
Apple has reinvented the iBook as one of the best laptops.
Not just Mac, but in all of the PC world.
The second generation of this version has a faster processor, a larger hard drive, and still looks great.
People are drawn to look at this machine from the time you pull it from it's case.
I would certainly recommend a RAM upgrade.
128 is okay, but it is just barely getting by.
I'd suggest at least doubling that.
Since the iBook only has one RAM slot, you may want to do that on ordering.
However, you can get quality chips for less from other sources, and since it's a fairly simple install you can do it yourself in a few minutes.I use my iBook as a webmaster with Macromedia Dreamweaver and Fireworks, Adobe Photoshop, and iMovie 2.
My digital camera mounts as an external hard drive.
My digital video camera links through the Firewire port with no fuss at all.Overall, I would highly recommend the iBook.
I bought the one with a 20 GB hard drive, and I have since put an extra 256 MB memory in it.
This machine is wonderful because it is so light, and yet it is powerful enough to run OS X, and just about any software you want to throw at it.
It is dynamite on airport networks.
I move mine between home and work i.e.
between two airport networks, and that is really easy and convenient.
The screen is just the right size for a portable, and really easy to read, and clear as crystal.
If you want speed, go for the higher CPU speeds and the higher bus speed, but I have been very happy with the 66 MHz bus and 500 MHz processor.
It is fine for everyday work.
If you really want to move fast, use your desktop.
I use a dual processor G4 with two screens when I really need to move fast during the day.
However, my ibook is always on, in use for my calendar and for backups, resting by the side of my desktop screens.
I would not be without it.
At home it is my main machine, where I do all my work stuff.
What amazes me is how many applications I can keep open and in use for hours under OS X.
No crashes, lots of flexibililty to keep many things going at once.
The really neat thing is when you meet a PC maven, or even a G4 Powerbook, the other machines are so BIG!
This ibook is wonderful on the road.
I have carried my ibook around in a ordinary bag, not a padded computer bag, for a week at at time, bumping about, with no ill effects, either on the computer or on my shoulder!I add this comment over a year later.
I stand by what I said above, except that the hinge on the screen is giving me trouble now.
The computer needs to warm up for a while before I can put the screen in its fully opened position.
Eventually, I am going to have it fixed.
Almost all of the SPECs on this baby are just what you want in a laptop -- fast processor, just over 1 inch thick case, less than 5 pounds, 5-hour battery.
In person, you won't believe how small and truly portable this machine is.
It's great for reporters on the go such as myself, or for students in a dorm room.
It has all the right ports, and appears to be made with quality in mind.The screen is exceptionally bright as well.My only two complaints: 1) The low-end model skimps horribly on the memory (for shame, Apple!
They could have added another 64 MB).
You can upgrade the memory easy enough aftermarket, but that's an annoyance (128MB is practically required for OS X, BTW).2) The screen is a fairly miserly 12.1 inches, although it is active-matrix and high-resolution.
Now, keep in mind that this contributes to the low-cost, svelte form factor and long battery life, but I wouldn't mine having a 13-14 inch screen when I'm squinting at text all day.
I generally solve this problem by upping the size of the fonts, but still, this screen is rather small.
If you buy one of the higher-end models, say the one with the DVD drive, you may find that watching a DVD on this small screen is not exactly the cinematic dream that you find on the amazing Titanium Powerbook G4 (with its glorious ultrawide 15.3" screen.
What one gets for the price you can beat it.
Frankly, the speed is outstanding considering what the spec's.
I was looking for a decent laptop for under $1000 and this Toshiba model fit the bill perfectly.
I wanted a laptop with CD-RW and DVD drives, a minimum of 256MB RAM and 30GB hard drive space.
Obviously, I was not looking for a professional laptop that is super-thin and light.
I was looking for something that can be a decent replacement for a desktop without paying $2000 for the privelege.This model has a very fast processor (it is Celeron, but if you are like most computer users, anything over 1 GHz is overkill!
), pretty spacious hard drive and the ability to record CD's and watch DVD's.
If you are into games that require 256MB of video RAM, this is not the laptop for you, but I watch DVD's on this laptop (on just battery power) and it plays back flawlessly.The laptop also comes with MS Works software, software for creating CD's, WinDVD and other goodies.
Overall, a steal for under $1000 (you can get it for under $1000 even though the list price is over $1100 right now).
It also has a huge 15" screen as opposed to the 14" screens that most low-end laptops have.The main disadvantages of the laptop that I see are: (1) no serial port.
This can be taken care of by using up one of the 3 USB ports and a USB to serial conversion cable.
(2) The maximum resolution of the screen is 1024x768 (I am used to 1280x1024, so this is a bit of a pain in the neck).
(3) Only 2.5 hours of battery run time.
(4)  On the heavy side at almost 8 lb (including battery, not including charger, adapter etc.
This is a very good machine for users looking for a mobile desktop.
It has all the key features for a mobile desktop: powerful Intel CPU, DVD, CD-RW, 15" screen, plenty of RAM and HDD space.The CPU was built by Intel to be used in desktops, not notebooks; that mean it uses more power and runs a little hotter.
Toshiba has been using desktop CPU in their low cost machines because they cost less.
If (like many users) you tend to plug your notebook in and use it at a desk, then this is a pretty good deal.
If you are looking for a thin, light, long life notebook that will sit on your lap for long periods, then this isn't the machine for you (those machines are much higher up the price ladder).The graphics on this notebook are okay, but they won't run newer 3D games very well.
They are great for moderate gaming, CAD work, or watching DVDs.
In all fairness there are very few notebooks in this price range that have 3D gaming quality graphics.
The HP  xt125 is an exception to this rule if you really want a gaming capable notebook (it has it's own tradeoffs like a 14" screen).
If you "want it all" you will have to spend a bit more money.This is a low cost notebook so you don't quite get everything.
The quality of the components is good, but not first rate, the battery life isn't a long as more expensive offerings, and this isn't a notebook built for hardcore gamers.
But if you want a powerful computer you can carry around with a large screen, then you won't find many that compare in this price range.
The Toshiba Satellite really tries to match feature-for-feature most of the things you'd want on a laptop/desktop replacement.
The LCD screen is bright and clear, the components that you need are all there--DVD, floppy, 30GB hard drive and a reasonably fast 1.8 GHz Celeron CPU.The system runs hot, however, because the battery on this unit is really NOT what I'd call good.
It specs out around 2 hours but I get less time than that on mine.
So, for long plane trips when you are stuck in coach with no AC outlet at hand, you are going to have to work fast before your system conks out, or else carry an additional charged battery.There are three USB ports, a network 10/100 support and a 56K modem that on my unit connects at almost the theoretical maximum speed.
These connectivity features are essentials for a portable, along with the touchpad pointer.
As it is, this unit has almost everything you want but it's not a one-hundred percent laptop for extended off-powerline use nor a full desktop replacement.
It's kind of a compromise, but for the price, a reasonably good set of trade-offs.
I have nothing against Toshiba, although they've certainly laid a few eggs in the laptop market (the last one being a line [5005-S507] that featured a desktop CPU [PIII] that ran way too hot for the confined space of a laptop and resulted in numerous maddening shutdowns).
Anyway, this one features a reasonably capable 1.8 GHz Celeron chip as its PCU.
These chips are a kind of &quot;Intel-Lite&quot; with rather limited graphics rendering capabilities.
Speaking of graphics, the video card matches the Celeron's limited abilities, offering only 16 megs of video RAM.
While the machine plays DVDs (and this is a nice feature of laptops, one that can make long trips quite tolerable), it does so with  disappointing aplomb (though given its chip &amp; video card setup, this is what one would expect).
Also irksome, it has no USB 2.0 ports (though it does have 3 USB 1.0 ports); these are becoming a necessity for many new high-speed peripherals.
My last issue with this computer is its weight: at 8 pounds, it's quite an armful if you're carrying it too far.
You might expect that kind of weight in a more capable, desktop replacement machine, but not in this road-only unit.
Finally, I would mention that the company handled the fiasco with the above-mentioned overheating laptops rather poorly: fixes under warranty were available, but no blame was admitted and of course once the warranties are up, those machines will likely become paperweights.
However, Toshiba did discontinue the line, but little good that will do for those who bought the bad apples in the first place.
Anyway, I think the bottom line here is that there are better deals on better machines to be had, and perhaps from better companies to boot.
This is a great work horse, fully adequate for day to day activities like email, web browsing, CD recording, DVD playing, office applications, and the likes.
With its 16 MB of dedicated graphics memory, the nVidia chipset also allows for moderate gaming, if so desired.
This is a great step ahead of most other offers in this price class, since the majority of the competition in this price segment seems to rely on sharing main memory for graphics.
The latter approach is not only costing the user memory, but also tends to be slower than dedicated graphics memory.While the standard 256 MB RAM initially seem to be adequate, over time it turns out that in order to take full advantage of the capabilities of this machine, another 256 MB are helpful.
Since there's an empty slot readily available, inserting a PC2100 S0-DIMM oneself is a no-brainer.Depending on the user's environment, there's also an optional wireless card available that can be mounted inside the laptop computer.
Out of the box, the defaults are set to provide maximum performance, thus draining the battery pretty fast.
With its 15" LCD display it offers almost the same visible area.
Pros: Solid build quality, excellent screen and keyboard, perfect out of the boxCons: Heavy, so-so battery life, features only "average" for the priceSummary: I really liked the keyboard, the feel of the keys being much better than most other low-priced machines, and the screen was very sharp and bright.
One thing I didn't like is the weight, over 8 pounds with the battery, much heavier than the competition.After hearing so many stories about problems with laptops, I quickly unpacked it and fired it up.
I was happy to see the solid case for the machine, it's plastic but it's quite strong.
I was also very happy to see no dead pixels, something which seems to plague many or most laptops.
In fact, manufacturers don't even consider a few dead pixels a defect, despite how annoying they are.I was happy to see the on-board tutorial which makes set-up a snap.
Also, back-up CD's are provided for the system, something which many manufacturers are beginning to cut corners on.I also quickly tried out a DVD, something which many laptops stumble on.
Playback was perfect, with crystal clear images and decent sound.
The CD-RW capability also worked as advertised, again a stumbling point with some machines.Overall, I'm very satisfied with the Toshiba.
It is heavy, no doubt about it, and battery life is only mediocre, at just over 2 hours.
Speaker quality is decent, considering it's a laptop with tiny speakers.
It certainly won't rival a good 3-piece desktop speaker set, but no laptop will.But everything works perfectly, and there are a few nice extras that many machines cut in favor of cost savings.
Like the floppy drive, the CD controls on the outside of the machine , so you can play CD's without having to boot up the machine, and the volume thumb wheel on the front.
This is much nicer than having to wade through menus just to adjust the volume.
The Toshiba is well thought out with a solid, quality feel.
It feels like they designed the computer to do a job and then priced it accordingly rather than deciding on a price and then cutting costs to meet it.
I deleted my original, 5-star review.
I know this particular model is no longer available, but if my experience is any indication, you should think hard before buying a Toshiba laptop, especially a lower-end model.
I had the Satellite 1415-S173 for three years -- during the first year I had it, it blew a hard drive (thankfully under warranty).
I had it fixed and less than a week later, it blew another hard drive.
This time it went back to Toshiba to be fixed.
All was more or less well for the next two years, when a Windows problem shut the thing down completely.
I took my data out of it and switched back to a Mac.
I am sick of Windows' unreliability, susceptibility to viruses and other problems, and the masking-tape-and-chewing-gum nature of patching together Windows machines just in order to make them function.
BUT -- more to the point, the computer had inherent problems, first and foremost being the cheap desktop processor Toshiba uses (or used) in their lower-end laptops.
This machine got incredibly hot and I was told this is probably what killed my first 2 hard drives.
If you have one of these machines, I highly recommend a cooling platform which is probably the only thing that kept my laptop running for an additional 2 years.
It's a shame, because aside from being very heavy and having a weak battery charge (1.5 hours at best), this laptop was attractive and easy to use with a nice bright display.
But ultimately -- not a good value -- at $1,200 I don't consider it a "cheap" machine by any means, and certainly not when compared to my (less expensive) iBook.
I've worked on and with Macs for years.
Our company has around fifteen PowerBooks G4s in use, four of which are the 1Ghz models with the superdrive (DVD-R).
I use one of them daily, and it is the strongest performing laptop I've used (I also use a Sony VAIO PCG GRX670, a 2Ghz P4, very comparable PC laptop).
The Apple doesn't so much run circles around the SONY, they are about the same overall speed-wise, but the PB manages to *feel* faster by at least 15%.
The PowerBook and the OS (Mac OS X 10.2) are better integrated.I don't know how well the SONY will do over time physically.
The PB G4 is basically the same as it was 2 years ago, and those machines have proved to be very durable, scratches being the only problem.
Oh, and someone at work spilled a beer on theirs.
It wouldn't start and appeared dead.
Our local Apple dealer took the motherboard out, dumped it in water, let it dry a couple days, put it back together, and it started up just fine.Anyway, great machine.
If you need raw power in a portable package, enough so that you can replace your desktop with this too, then this is the machine for you.
Mine is actually a generation back (800MHz processor).
It's more than fast enough for the things that I do (graphic design, mathematics, music recording, programming, internet browsing... can you tell I have catholic interests?)
The Apple bundled apps are fantastic, and iPhoto incorporates enough of what I do to my pictures that I rarely open PhotoShop any more (not to mention the permanent retention of the original photo is always a good thing).
I rarely reboot the system (it's just not necessary unless I do an OS upgrade), or close applications and all is well.
It's nice to have Word, Excel, Safari, iTunes, Eudora, Illustrator and InDesign all at the ready at a moment's notice.Perhaps most exciting is the realization that with this machine I just don't need a desktop anymore.
My G4 tower gets only occasional use anymore (and the PC hasn't been turned on for nearly a year).
This is easily the only computer you'll ever need.
My 15&quot; Powerbook G4 has lived up to every one of my expectations and more.
I'm a teacher that uses both Windows and Mac computers on a regular basis.
It wasn't until I had a chance to use OS X that I decided to purchase a new Mac laptop.I already owned one of the original iMacs, but that computer is starting to show its age.
The computer that I used the most regularly is the PC that I built for my wife last spring (AMD Athlon XP 1800 running Windows XP Pro).
That computer has served us well, but like every other windows machine I've ever used, it has major software problems.
Here's the defining reason to buy a Mac over a PC.
Apple integrates their software into their hardware designs.
Microsoft on the other hand has very limited control over the hardware design of computer manufacturers.
Thus, Windows tends to have more issues with hardware/software conflicts.
This laptop, like every other that I've ever used, gets quite toasty on your lap after you using for 30+ minutes.
There's a simple fix for this though.
I just put a blanket or a pillow underneath the computer when I use it on my lap.
Other than that, I have &quot;0&quot; complaints.
The 1GHz processor makes computer &quot;feel&quot; quite snappy.
And the built-in DVD-RW, paired with iDVD, is awesome!My best advice for anyone considering the purchase of this Powerbook is to test it at an Apple Store, borrow one from a friend, or just buy it.
I freely admit, I am writing this at the sunset rather than beginning of the Titanium PowerBook's technological lifecycle.
But, as a died in the wool Wintel person, what is really remarkable is that, after a hiatus of about 10 years, I have bought a Macintosh again.
You can blame this on a combination of three things - one of my computers died, I needed a portable, and I just bought an iPod.
Supporting the latter, and getting my ears onto iTunes was the deciding factor.There is no question that the Titanium is a superb computer.
It is every bit as fast as my Pentiums, it is beautifully designed, and the 15 inch screen is a big plus for my tired eyes.
But what is really amazing is the overall slickness of the operating system and its standard software.
I was setting up a wireless network for myself when I bought the PowerBook.
Literally the only thing I had to do to get it to fit in was to tell it to activate its internal Airport.
Meanwhile, I am still fighting glitches in my windows machines.
I plugged in my iPod, my cell phone, and my PDA and when I ran iSync I got all three devices and the Powerbook to synchronise.
And this is typical of OSX's approach to seamless operation.The Powerbook excels at graphics and music work, and that is where my interests lie.
The included software provides basic functionality which can be fleshed out with a host of excellent software.
And the Powerbook is certainly strong enough to run them.
With a built in DVD burner as well as both USB2 and FireWire 400 connectors you can accessorize and gadgetize this machine to your hearts content.Of course, there is a price to pay.
OSX is different at heart than any Windows OS.
Not in big ways, but in countless little deviations that will take a bit of acclimatization.
Even purchased software life Microsoft Office will do unexpected things on occasion.
I heartily recommend that you don't fall for Apple's &quot;you don't need a manual&quot; hype and go out and buy one of those 700 page volumes that ramble their way through the host of Macintosh features.
The more you find out about this machine, the better it gets.
I need to be able to do my work on the road.
I've been a Windows user for most of my adult life.
I've used various Windows laptops over the years.
I've seen and used friends' G4 towers and iMacs.
I liked using Mac OS X.
But I wasn't sure about a Powerbook.
Would it be portable and powerful enough?Then my best friend got one from his employer, and was utterly enraptured.
I spent a weekend using his PowerBook, and bought my own matching one as soon as I got home.The 15" display is gorgeous.
Unlike many Windows laptops (especially the ThinkPad I use for work), it is readable from many angles.
I often use my PowerBook to watch DVDs.
For my Windows laptop, it is hard to position it so that two people sitting next to each other (such as on an airplane) can both see it.
With my PowerBook, I never have to worry about that.
Besides the fantastic viewing angle, its rendering of colour is very life-like.The weight of the PowerBook is great.
For such a fully-featured laptop, the weight is very light.
I carry it all the time and never find myself cursing it for being so heavy.I use the following applications on my PowerBook regularly: FrameMaker, Photoshop, Toast with Jam, Quicken and The Sims (hey, I can't work all the time!).
During normal use, I usually have FrameMaker, a couple of web browser windows, ICQ (an instant messenging program), iCal, and Mail.
I never have to wait for it to swap between applications like I do on my Windows laptop.Since OS X is Unix-based, an experienced Linux or Unix user can simply open a terminal and do all of the command line stuff you know so well.
I even run XWindows on my PowerBook.
I love having a nice-looking GUI for some tasks (such as FrameMaker), but still having the power of lex, yacc, and all of my favourite Unix tools.
Apache is already installed, I didn't have to muck about with getting Perl working.
And I've never had my PowerBook show me the Blue Screen of Death, whereas I get that about once a week on my Windows laptop.My PowerBook just works.
I can troubleshoot Windows problems with the best of them.
But with my PowerBook, I never have to bother.
It took three firmware upgrades before my Windows laptop would recognise my wireless network.
The first time I turned my PowerBook on, it found my wireless network immediately.
I didn't have to bother configuring anything.
Any device that I have added has been similarly trivial to set up.I don't think that I could be happier with my PowerBook.
I am extremely happy that I made the switch.
Using Windows is now even more of an annoyance than it was before I knew better.
I've been using PC's for twenty years - my first was a Compaq lunchbox luggable that ran DOS 1.1.
Today I have a couple of IBM laptops and Dell desktops, all running Windows XP Pro.
I was in the market for a new laptop, and after looking around for awhile, I came to the conclusion that there was nothing in the PC world to compare with the PowerBook from a pure hardware standpoint.
That is, I couldn't find anything that included all of the of the following: 1" thick profile, but with an extremely sturdy titanium case (that doesn't flex); 15.1" screen, and a dazzline one at that; slot-loading CD/DVD drive that writes both CD's and DVD's; long-battery life (3 - 4 hrs.
); sturdy keyboard with decent tactile feel and minimal flex; built-in Bluetooth; built-in Firewire; built-in wireless networking (AirPort)I found machines that offered maybe two or three of these, but none that had them all.
Since 75% of the work I do involves using MS Excel, Word and PowerPointk, excellent versions of which are available in Office X for Mac, I decided to give the PowerBook a try.I haven't been disappointed.
The display is awesome, and the OS X operating system is enough to make me give XP the boot.
I miss not having Visio or Access available, although the machine comes bundled with a trial version of FileMaker Pro, which while not a replacement for Access, is decent.
It also comes with OmniGraffle, which while not as powerful as Visio, is adequate.
Even mainstream applications like encyclopedias and software are sparse (Britannica is the only encyclopedia I've found that will run native under OS X).
I use Bible software extensively on my PC, but there's only one decent product available for Mac OS X, and it's really expensive.Also, as a hobbyist music recording and guitar enthusiast, I'm disappointed there's not more stuff available for the Mac.
There are a few high end programs like Logic, Pro Tools and (soon) Digital Performer available for sequencing/recording, but little else.
Programs like Finale, Band-in-a-Box, Jammer, etc.
If I were running Apple, I think I'd concentrate on being developing innovative, state-of-the-art software to complement OS X.
Still, the more I use my PowerBook, the more I'm inclined to switch completely.
This is a great machine with a terrific operating system.
Everything else is ticking me off lately, this Vaio being the latest.
It won't run my Nero software, or STOMP, or anything it seems that is not somehow Sony affiliated.
And their software has givin me nothing but problems.
The video editor that came with the bundled software tends to disappear right before my eyes, so I end up saving my work every 3 seconds.
And I've burnt DVD's that are bad even though Vaio says they're fine.
Sonic music software that comes with it will not burn .wav files to CD's unless you have imported them using their software.
And I recommend avoiding their external DVD burner like the PLAGUE.
And their DVD players (I have 2) won't play 5% of my DVD's for no reason (and of course they play on others).
At over 8 pounds of carrying weight, this Vaio is not ideal as a traveling laptop.
Instead, it's designed to be a desktop replacement.
Witness the 2.8Ghz P4 processor (not the mobile version), which is screaming fast especially for gaming and video/audio editing, as well as 512MB of fast RAM and large screen.
BTW, the screen is beautiful and has terrific viewing angles.This particular configuration is a good value; what you won't get is built-in DVD burner.
Otherwise Sony, in its usual way, throws in a lot of add-on software.
Performance seems pretty good, as the system is responsive at all times.
The internal fan does kick in a lot, to cool down the system.
In this regard, I highly recommend a cooling pad with built-in fans, such as the "Bytecc cooling pad" I'm currently using.
It plugs into the USB port and the fans keep the air flowing under the laptop.A beautiful screen, admirably fast performance, and general good looks make this Vaio a good choice for anyone except those needing a constant traveling companion.
If you need to bring your work home, this is the notebook for you.
Sony Notebooks are excellent in quality.
About 6 months ago, i bought the 505BX (12.1") display, and it was a great performer as well.But the problem here is that this FRV26 has no Wireless Internet, which is becoming so important these days.
It's a good deal, again, if you need business performance, otherwise....Go for a Dell ([...]) or an IBM.You'll have to wait a week or two for the dell or IBM, but it's worth it.
Never ever a buy a Sony Laptop.
They provide you a a CD-RW for FREEEEEEEEEE!!
The trick behind is that they don't need to provide you a recovery CD.What all you get in the box is the trash AOL CD!
!They have a program that will create 10 coasters in order to recover the applications and OS!
!I will never ever rely on this!
That is billion dollar advice I can give.
Sony has always made quirky computers, not bad mind you but their products remind me of Saabs.
Wireless is commonplace, especially for travelers &amp; students (airports, hotels, convention centers, schools, libraries, etc.
), and in the next few years it will be virtually ubiquitous.Anyway, it's not a bad computer, but I think it firmly meets the needs of no particular market segment.
I have no doubt that today's buyer can do better at Dell or Gateway, or, for the traveler on a budget, at Averatec.
For the price listed here (and you can get even better rebates if you look) this Vaio is a fabulous steal.
At the very least, you won't have "restore" problems etc as a reviewer called "Sam Michaels" mentioned.
One wonders if Mr. Sam has heard of Windows XP and the restore feature within it.
It has nothing to do with Sony.
If you want even higher duty backup facility then get something more professional like Acronic TrueImage or Norton Ghost.
(Seldom necessary unless you know what you want out of these.
)The hardware of Sony Vaios is still made entirely in Japan, unlike your average IBMs or Dells (which are made in China or Malaysia.)
Vaio rocks, especially for the quoted price (&lt; 1,200 USD as of this writing.)
I have had mine for a couple of years.
Strange, but my Sony camera and this laptop aren't compatible.
Each time I would try to viev a movie from my camera, the laptop would shut down.
Sony said it's a Microsoft problem and Microsoft said it's a Sony problem.
I got with Sony tech support.
They had me erase all my programs and start all over again as if it was a brand new laptop.
While on the phone talking to them, the dvd player broke.
They immediately had me send the laptop to them.
They repaired the dvd and said I didn't have to erase my programs after all.
I started the computer and on the first try, the computer shut down again.
I told them it still doesn't work properly.
That's as far as it went.
If I would have known I was going to have this much trouble with the laptop and support, I would of purchased a different brand.
As a 20-year PC user (my first computer was a pre-8088 luggable), I wasn't entirely sure what to expect when I got my PowerBook.
I'm not a switcher, and I'm certainly not a fanboy, but I love this machine.
The machine's design is wonderful: the backlit keyboard, the glowing apple on the lid, even the power cord balances form and function nicely.There are a few areas that have room for improvement.
For instance, the computer didn't come with an operator's manual.
Granted, it's the trend lately to not include manuals with computer products, but I could have used one (if for no other reason than to determine what the hotkey represented by what looks like a down-escalator is (trial and error reveals it to be the option/alt key)).
Fortunately there are a lot of good third-party manuals and tech magazines to fill the need.
Likewise, there are manufacturers of multi-button mice that work with the Mac; still I fail to see the advantage to the one-button touchpad, splitting the button in two would have made the PowerBook near perfect.After a couple decades it's nice to have an easily transportable computer again.
The 15-inch color screen is a vast improvement over my old luggable's 4-inch amber monochrome screen.
The weight and battery life are equally impressive (considering the PC ran on power cord only any battery life would be an improvement, but 3.5+ hours for word processing is wonderful).
I still like my desktop PC, but as I overcome the learning curve I expect I'll like my PowerBook even more.
I replaced my desktop with this feature-rich laptop and love it.
The wide screen is perfect for watching DVDs and the design is stunning.
The best part about it is OS X.
Very stable and much more intuitive than it's Windows counterpart.
I can't think of one bad thing to say about this laptop.
Yes, it costs more than your average laptop, but it packs many more features.
Worth every bit of the money.
My PowerBook has been accidentally dropped twice.
The first time it fell from a table as my kids were watching a DVD movie from the laptop.
The second time my carrying fell from a reception counter.
The PowerBook is still running as if nothing had happened.
The technical details regarding this Mac are available for all to read, and there is no reason for me to repeat them.
I will only note that this Mac continues my lengthy experience with poor Apple quality control.
It came, as did many of this model, with white splotches marring the screen, and the track pad button was so stiff I couldn't consistently hold it down.
Both of these probems existed out of the box and the Mac was sent to Apple for repair.
Since 1997, all but two Apple hardware products I've purchased -- and there have been many -- have suffered from at least one substantial defect.
One small additional note: the keyboard is rather slick; fingers tend to slip while typing.
The unpainted keys of my iBook have a better feel.
It's been 3 years since I joined Apple's bandwagon, courtesy of 2nd generation top-of-the-line PowerBook G4.
No, this 5th generation PowerBook does not have a G5 processor.
Mobile G5 probably isn't due for another year or so (Apple and IBM are busy at work cranking out PowerPC 980).The most radical upgrade has to be aluminum alloy chassis.
While not as hip as titanium, aluminum alloy is about as strong as titanium, while looking beautiful and providing one important benefit: nothing's painted over it.
Titanium PowerBooks were notorious for paint chipping off.
Now the PowerBooks will stay beautiful year after year.
When you are buying a Picasso, you can't expect to pay discount.
The Powerbook G4 is a premium computer, and you pay a premium price.
What you get puts competing PC-based products to shame, except, alas, on price.The biggest advantage of the PBG4 -- besides, of course, the operating system -- is design efficiency and elegance.
Despite having a 15.2-inch screen and a fast processor (one optimized for intensive video applications and presentations), the PBG4 weighs just 5.6 pounds and is stunningly slim at 1-inch thick.
Check your average ad for similarly equipped laptops and they simply can not compare.Take Sony's VAIO GRX for example.
It boasts a &quot;gigantic 16.1-inch screen.&quot; Okay, great.
I'd love a 16-inch screen too.
But then, in the fine print, is this laughable phrase: &quot;Just 8.4 lbs.
and 1.8&quot; thin.&quot;Let's see, sounds like a great tradeoff, doesn't it?
You get about 12 percent more screen real estate, 55.5 percent more weight and 80 percent more bulk (and faster battery drain to boot).The Sony is about 20 percent cheaper, mind you, but I already told you about that part, right?Let's compare Apples to apples, then, shall we?
A new VAIO model with a 15-inch display and Combo drive sells for about a grand less than Apple's deluxe Powerbook, and a few hundred below the bottom-of-the line.
You would think with a smaller display, maybe they could take out some of that bulk?
This one is &quot;Just 8.6 lbs.
Battery life is comparable to the Powerbooks, for once.
You can now find DVD burners, though not slot-loading models.
But the PC 'books all come down to being utilitarian, plastic hunks of hardware, mostly thrown together with only an eye on maximum features for minimum price.
Apple's are the product of a harmonious mix of design and integration that lead to a pleasing whole.
It's the only company I know of that creates 5.6 pound pieces of aluminum art that will literally have you cracking a 1,000 watt smile when you open it up for the first time...And isn't that worth a few hundred bucks?
How much did you pay for the painting above your sofa?Taking this computer with you also gets you noticed.
You are instantly associated with the &quot;cool&quot; people.
Add an iPod and you would fit right in to any hip hangout and become a magnet for like-minded folks who appreciate that there is more to life than just megahertz.
Folks who understand feng shui and design and a better way of life will be attracted to you.
Another bonus.By the way, you might also consider buying Apple's 3-year protection plan.
Sure, it's expensive, but if you bought that Picasso, would you take it with you on an airplane (not to mention through overzealous security guards) without insurance?
I also got the privacy filter BUT i don't recommend this as it adds stripey lines and turns down the contrast of the fantastic xbrite display.
I('ve been going in the the apple stores looking for a new ibook and they've all got vaio envy.
(Second edit) I finally found the perfect bag for it, sony have a little vaio bag with no handles so its ok for lite work, but theres a powerbook/ibook bag called the `booq` it fits great i picked the larger size since it game me some extra space but the 12 powerbook fits very snugly.
I got the TR2A a while ago for school and i absolutely love it.
i got a gig of RAM..and i reccomend you do too but only if you want to play MOHAA, BF1942, etc.
if you dont know what im talking about, get 512.
I got this computer for school and it has served it's purpose and gone far, far beyond.
It is so light i can carry it in my backpack and not notice any weight difference, yet powerfull and the screen is sooo AWESOME!!
its the brightest screen i have ever seen.. and i have a bunch of screens.
The keyboard is perfect, not too big or small.
The mouse is suprisingly nice, i didnt expect it to be so easy to use.
the only gripe i have about this product, is that...uhh hmm i guess i DONT HAVE A GRIPE!
go to a CompUSA and check it out, then get it off Sonystyle.com or here, they are about the same price.
The dvd drive is awesome, since with the WIDE screen you can watch wide format dvd's and it looks so so so so great, you have to see it to believe it.
I thought i had died and went to ultraportable laptop heaven.
i was going to get a Z1, but they were out so i got this one and i love it.
PROS:  The TR2A is a full featured system in an incredibly small and lightweight package.
Despite the small size the screen is excellent and the keyboard usable.
Before the Vaio I used to dread lugging my full sized laptop on trips.
The Vaio goes with me everywhere.
Battery life is not 15 hours (an absurd claim) but is long enough for a 7 hour flight and then some.
Some nice touches such as a switch at the front to turn wireless lan off / on.
It is not a CAD or graphics workstation, nor is it intended to be.
Great WOW factor.CONS:  Should have a DVD burner and not just CD burner.
For sake of future compatibility, 802.11G wireless would be nice as well.
Sony should include the recovery media instead of requiring you to order it or burn it to a dozen plus CD's (since there is no DVD burner).
Probably the best subnotebook available at the moment although it seems they cut a few corners in terms of the DVD and wireless.
Heck, at least provide a cheap vinyl zipper case and a printed copy of the manual.Do consider the TR2AP3.
For not much more $$$ you get twice the memory, XP Pro, and 802.11 B AND G.  TR2 is great, I only wish the AP3 configuration had been available when I bought mine.
Okay, this is a niche product that fills its niche so magnificently that it deserves all 5 stars.
It is solidly built and yet so light it almost defies explanation.
The processor is not only a very capable 1 gigahertz, but as a Centrino tuned Pentium, it throws off less heat and is much more miserly with its battery use.
The optical drive will play and record CDs and will play DVDs beautifully on an extra crisp 10.6&quot; screen (and battery life is longer than any DVD I can think of).The hard drive is an adequate 40 gigs.
The connections are fine, including two USB 2.0s, and the built in 802.11 wireless is foolproof.
I find I have no problems with the ergonomics of the keyboard or touchpad, though I do keep a tiny USB optical mouse in my case for hotel stays, etc.Overall, this is the ideal 2nd computer, especially for a student or for a frequent flyer.
Sony has been pretty good about backing their products in case you have a problem, though mine has not even hiccupped yet.
The only extra expense I had was finding a small enough case to carry it in, and that was very much a pleasant purchase!
Overall, this is a great laptop.
I do recommend to buy one shipped with WinXP Pro (see one of the reviews below).
In this day and age it gets very important to have network capabilities managed on a level better than that of stripped WinXP Home.
It picks up signal beautifully.It is true that the laptop is running pretty hot underneath when power management is off, which seems to be the plague of many Sony laptops.Definitely recommend to people who need mobility and good performance in one package.
an oldie but goodie, now a recycle item, I have actually worn the letters off the keys and used it so much I have taken it to the computer shop to get old lost programs put on, they usually do it for free since these machines are obsolete now.
I bought this iBook to upgrade my son's 1 yr old iBook G3 - which I sold on eBay for a couple hundreds less.
Like another reviewer, I figured USB2.0, a faster CPU+bus, a faster airport, plus a new AppleCare coverage justify the small cost difference.
The great price on Amazon made my choice much easier.I used Macs for 15 years and have both Macs and PCs at home.
I also develop PC software at work.
So I already knew what a great OS I was getting.
However, I was worried that it may be underpowered for todays games.To my delight, I was very pleasantly surprised.
I just installed Unreal Tournament 2004 (which states a 933 Mhz G4/G5 machine required on the box) and the game FLIES!
My son can't be happier.I highly recommend this machine.
No PC notebook can match it in price/performance!
I've had mine for 2 years and is still going strong.
It maybe a little slow to respond, but I wanted something that would hold up to traveling on the bike and it has.
From 5/03 to 11/03 I owned a 14.1" G3 iBook.
That was a nice laptop but certainly had some annoying quirks and was really out-of-date (described later).
I also wanted to get a smaller laptop and also get Panther.
So "upgrading" or "downgrading" to this 12" G4 iBook made a whole lot of sense for me.
Here is my review based on comparison to the old G3 iBook.Performance:  From G3 900Mhz to G4 800Mhz is certainly an upgrade.
As the G4 features a faster 133Mhz Bus (formerly 100Mhz Bus) and also supports DDR Memory (compared to the old PC100).
Applications seem to fire up and run better and everything is just snappier.
Also if you have altivec enabled applications, G4 is certainly the way to go.Technical Improvements:  USB 1.1 ==> USB 2.0, Airport 802.11b ==> Airport Extreme 802.11g, updated graphics card, tray loading combo drive ==> slot loading combo drive.Other Improvements:  Panther is a more polished and refined OS compared to Jaguar.
The keyboard on the G4 iBook has been improved...buttons press smoother and keyboard has less flex (not to mention the greyish tone makes it look better).
Also the LCD display seems a little bit more crisper.All in all I'd highly recommend this 12" G4 iBook.
For this price, it is a tremendous value.
You cannot find a comparable 12.1" laptop in the PC world (w/o spending nearly 2 Grand, and most don't come with an optical drive built-in).I don't see much of a reason to go with 14.1" as it has the same resolution as the 12" (unless that you have bad vision).
If you want a laptop with a big display, go with the 15.2" Powerbook (probably the best all-around laptop in the world).
If you want a small but still very fast laptop that you can carry everywhere, GET THIS IBOOK!
It certainly has the looks and now is a speedster with G4.
(Added 1/11)  For the past 3 months I have yet to experience a crash or problem with this iBook.
Past generations of iBooks were prone to logic board failures, it seems like Apple finally got it fixed.
I can put this laptop asleep for a week and wake it up, and be ready for use within 10 seconds.
This is a sweet laptop, and it's coming from a lifelong Windows user (who still uses Windows too).
The description of this laptop was not accurate.
There were a couple of damaged areas, which definitely would have affected the use of the laptop.I am still waiting on a refund on this purchase.
It has been nearly five years since I bought my first mac, an iMac DV, and for five years the lime-green beast ran great without a hitch, but facing the start of my student teaching I felt I needed a portable.
this machine has done wonders, the screen size is hardly noticable since the resolution and sharpness are far better than any 14 inch monitor dell makes.
the responce is snappy and fluid, internet is great as well.
this machine picks up WiFi better than any laptop I have ever used.
sure it's not a lightning-fast gaming machine, but seriously, what laptop is?
if you want speed and nifty features get the 12inch powerbook, if you want a great deal on a solid, first rate machine get the new iBooks, just make sure to pack some extra ram on for good measure.
I've had a 12" iBook G4 since 2005 and it's still my favorite notebook for browsing the internet, writing letters, and even reading pdf's.
It's very lightweight and I consider the screen the perfect size.
One of the keys has a hairline crack and one of the rubber feet on the bottom fell off but I clean it every month or so and it still looks almost new.My only criticism is that it gets a little warm so I keep it on top of a clipboard when holding it in my lap.
No viruses, no crashes, no worries.When netbooks started becoming popular a couple of years ago, I had to laugh because I already have a lightweight, handy netbook.
In fact, I'm using it right now to write this review.
Given a choice between a new Asus or Dell netbook or a used iBook G4 for the same price, I would take the G4 without thinking about it for a second.
Was brought for some who says they are enjoying it tremendously.
Only could have been a little cleaner
Let us raise the glass: long live the G3 processor, for it is dead.
Apple's iBook was the last holdout to G4 processor.
It is G3 no more.Despite some rumors, iBook's G4 processor is a true G4 processor with Altivec fully on-board.
While it runs slower (800 MHz vs. 1 GHz) and features smaller L2 cache (256 KB vs. 512 KB) than 12" PowerBook, it comes remarkable close in most performance parameters.
They share the same 133 MHz front-side bus and PC2100 (266 MHz) DDR SDRAM.Even their feature sets come remarkably close.
Both sport sharp 12.1" 1024-by-768 LCD, 256 MB memory and 32 MB graphics memory, FireWire 400 and USB 2.0 ports, and 100/10 fast Ethernet.
For a little over a grand, you get a beautifully designed notebook (similar to iPod) packed with features: combo CD-RW/DVD-ROM drive, optional 802.11g AirPort Extreme wireless network, beautiful LCD, sensible keyboard layout, snappy performance under included Mac OS X Panther 10.3 -- all in very portable form factor.
To add more memory later on, you will need to toss out one of the memory modules (the other memory module is soldered onto the motherboard)
I am giving this 4 stars instead of 5, because 800MHz is acceptable to most users, but 1GHz would have been nice.
The 800MHz G4 is still much faster than last year's 900MHz G3 model, and Panther is slightly faster.
I have a 733MHz G4 tower, so this is a slight speed increase for me.I am so glad I got the 12&quot; screen over the 14&quot;.
Everyone I asked recommended the 12&quot; over the 14&quot;.
It's easier to carry, lighter, easy to sit on your lap with, and you don't feel the need to buy a huge case to carry it around in.
Both the 12&quot; and 14&quot; have 1024x768 displays, the 12&quot; is just denser, about 96 dpi, about the same resolution as my 23&quot; Apple LCD.
Text is sharp and clear and very readable.
Both models have the same sized keyboards.
Wireless internet is happening all over, in many hotels and restaurants.
If you travel, consider adding some good Ear Buds if you use it to watch movies on or listen to music.This is my 5th Apple laptop, dating back to 1992, and by far the best one to date.
It's ancient, and doesn't stream YouTube very well, but I still use it for home finances, kids games, web surfing, video editing, mp3 editing and web page design.
This is the most reliable computer I have owned...except the cd/dvd drive pooped out a year or so ago and now I have to use an external drive for that.
I also DJ small gigs here and there and use it for mixing tracks.
I thought so much of this computer after buying it in May 2004 that I recommended that my college-student daughter get one in September and bought my wife a 3250 earlier this year.Some complain about the keyboard's small keys and slightly different layout; the latter annoyed me occasionally, but it's not a big deal.Everyone complains about the poor battery life.
This wasn't a big deal for me either, but if you travel a lot and expect to work on battery power a lot, beware of buying this model unless you get an extra battery to lug along.The one time I tried to use the CD burner, I couldn't get the included software to work.
My daughter has had problems reading some CDs and she can't get the DVD player to work.
Averatec was willing to fix the problem, but their tech support is reputed to routinely wipe hard drives on machines returned for repair, and my daughter didn't want to risk that.
I've advised her to get an external harddrive and do a full system backup, then return her 3225 to Averatec.
I have noticed that the power management software on my 3225 doesn't work well;  in the default setting, the fan comes on more than necessary, slowing down the computer.
To fix that I set the PM to minimal, which helped; I also bought a Targus Chiller Pad to keep the computer cooler; it overheats, and its bottom vent fan isn't adequate; with the chiller pad, it works much better.The biggest problem I've encountered with the 3225 happened over the past week.
The power connector would not make a solid connection, meaning the battery would not charge consistently and would sometimes overheat.
It turns out that this is a defect in the AC/DC power connector circuit board inside the computer.
I learned about the problem on the unofficial forums.
A good PC technician can fix the problem in an hour with a screwdriver and a soldering iron, but you don't dare go that route if you have the warranty from Averatec in effect, or an extended warranty.
Maybe Averatec is learning from its design mistakes with the 3200 series.
My first notebook...Every other pro & con has been stated in other reviews.UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATEAfter a few months of packing my computer in and out of a rather expensive and well-cushioned laptop backpack, that pressure from the touchpad on the LCD finally caused damage.
My LCD broke, with the crack starting exactly where it made contact with the touchpad.
This was all due to a complete lack of effective cushion padding on the LCD (those little bumpers at the bottom of the LCD).I called Averatec, and they said I could send it in, it would be covered by warrenty, and I'd have it back in a few weeks.
Soon after, I got a call from fremontek (handles Averatec warrenty and repairs) telling me that it's NOT covered, and I'd have to pay $355 to get it back repaired, or about $60 just to get it back the way it was!
I had already paid for shipping, so WTF!
I had them send it back to the tech three times, each time explaining that the damage was due to a factory defect (no cushion pads, touchpad contact with LCD, etc...), but the warrenty clearly states that "physical damage to the LCD" is not covered, even though any damage due to a manufacturer's defect is...
I was pissed.I ended up paying for repairs, but my billing authorization statement declares that the damage was due to no cushion padding, a manufacturer's defect, and that the new LCD must have significant cushion padding.
Since they took the money, they must have agreed to the statement.
If I get another LCD that presses against the touchpad, I will be royally pissed off.
It should get here tomorrow...This whole experience has taught me NEVER BUY FROM AVERATEC, and may even have converted me to Apple.UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATE UPDATElol - Apple..?
:PThe new screen was the glossy kind, and much better than the old.
The notebook served several more years of use after being repaired, and has been passed on to a friend now.
I suppose I got my money's worth out of it in the end, but still wouldn't recommend Averatec, especially with the range of competitive options these days (3/2/2009).
Averatec makes a great laptop but you never see them reviewed in publications such as PC World, PC Magazine, or Consumer Reports.
I really wanted a smallish laptop that was easy to travel with, easy to move around the house, and easy on the wallet.
After looking at everything available on the market, I had to chose between the $900 Averatec and a $1500 Fujitsu.
Both were similarly equiped, but the Fujitsu had a nicer, slightly larger screen.
But when it came down to it, I was able to buy the Averatec and a new cheap desktop computer for the price of the Fujitsu.
So I bought the Averatec and have been very happy ever since.
The screen is fine, the keyboard is good, and it is built very well.
It is much easier to tote around than my old 8-pound IBM Thinkpad.
I do have two complaints, however.
First of all, the battery doesn't last very long.
I can't even get through a DVD movie when unplugged.
Perhaps I got a bad battery, but I think its probably just a weak design.
The second problem is that the audio is too quiet, whether I use the built in speakers or headphones.
This makes it a bit hard to use for movie watching in a noisy place (such as an airplane or laundrymat).
Those problems are minor, though, and I really bought it for use as a computer and not as a DVD player.
When I want to buy another laptop, I would seriously consider buying another Averatec...I just hope they are still in business!
I've used this machine to surf the web, store and analyze my data (no heavy programs).
My only criteria, then, was to get the lightest laptop and at the price it seemed like a good deal.
But overtime I found many problems associated with it:1.
I downloaded a couple of softwares to keep the processor cool, although it's still hot.
You can't keep it on your lap while working for even 1 hour.2.
I didn't like the keyboard in the beginning but overtime it came into my habit.
Battery life sucked from the beginning, it started out ~ 2hours, nowadays it's ~ 1 hr.
But FOR ME it's not a problem because connecting through power cord all the time is not a big deal for me.4.
Speakers should not be at the front, where you rest you hands while working.5.
Although not a big deal but I'd have rather liked the power connection at the back and not on the side.
Since I use USB ports quite often, I'd have liked the 3 USB ports distributed on both sides of the machine, atleast not on the same side as the power cord.What else, Interenet connection -  both ethernet and wireless work great!
I was tired of lugging heavy laptops around; to work, on trips.
I didn't wnat to pay $2000+ for a 512 MB laptop.
The IBM is light but expensive and you don't even get an optical drive.
This laptop has a DVD/CD-burner built-in.
This Averatec has been a value purchase.
I took it with me to Macedonia on a Northwest Medical Team mission and was able to download digital pictures and recordings then select and burn mini-cds to give to our hosts.The battery does not last 3 1/2 hours; more like a little over 2.
It's a small negative when you literally save $1000.
I'd suggest you you buy a PC notebook for that purpose.
Powerbooks are powerful enough to play games, but the mac selection of games is sparse.
And now finally to the review...Specs- As with any notebook I suggest you have at least 512 MB of RAM.
This was the only upgrade I added to my Powerbook.
The Powerbook comes standard with a very generous 60gig hard drive, USB, firewire 400, ethernet, WIFI(b/g) and bluetooth.
The only thing missing is the firewire 800, but that is not essential for most users including me.
The Powerbook also comes with a very speedy 1.33 GHZ G4.
How does this stack up to the new Centrino's (Pentium M)?
Compared to my brother's IBM Thinkpad with a Pentium M 1.3 w/ 512 RAM, it runs equivalent or faster to the naked eye, unfortunately benchmarks are not readily available to compare mac and pc.
But needless to say, whatever I can do on the IBM, whether its Powerpoint presentations, Photoshop, Flash, video or photo editing, I can do it on the Powerbook just as fast or faster.
Also something that is very unique to this ultraportable is the 64 MB nVidia graphics card.
Although there are better graphics cards out there on midsized laptops, ultraportable laptops RARELY have a graphics card as nice as this one.Combodrive- slot loading.
No cd tray to deal with popping in and out.
Just insert the cd or dvd into the slot and it is ready to go.
This is not only a spacesaver since there is no tray, but it also is less prone to break since there is no tray to snag and break off.
Why did I not pick the Superdrive that is also offered with this computer?
In a few months they are releasing dual-layer DVD writers that hold twice as much data as writeable dvd's currently do, so I'm waiting to get an external DVD writer.
Also its good to notice that many computers in order to stay small do not even include an optical drive like the Powerbook does.Price- Sony, IBM, Dell, Gateway.
These companies all offer 12" notebooks, but customize them to equivalent specs as the Powerbook and they all come out approximately equivalent or much more expensive than the Powerbook.
Apple is known for higher prices of their computers, but the Powerbook (specifically the 12" model) is a great deal price wise.Battery Life- This is VERY important if you want to tote your laptop around (and if you don't want to tote a laptop around, then why get a laptop at all?).
Battery life is 5+ hours in my experience when just surfing the net and downloading files.
Again how does this compare with other PC models?
I think if you research you will find that most ultraportable Centrino's without an optional larger battery average around 4 hours.
The IBM mention earlier lasts us about 4 and a half hours of use.Operating system- I think a description of this is beyond the scope of the review, but in short Mac OS X (Panther) is an absolute delight.
I personally had very few problems with Windows XP, but it isn't just about the stability of Mac OS X its about the ease of use, integration and beauty of the system.
Its something you just have to use first hand to fully realize it.
Then take a look at an Apple Powerbook.
Again its something that is more adequately experienced than described.
From the glowing Apple symbol on the cover to the almost seamless bottom, it is an amazing feeling, solid, and beautiful notebook.
Everything else just feels cheap in your hands.
Also the screen is crisp and clear and the keyboard is a full-sized keyboard, not a miniature one, that is perfect for typing.Laptop Heat and Sound- Use of the Powerbook for about 4 hours, I noticed it got only mildly warm and much less so than the IBM.
However after about 4 hours the Powerbook got about as hot as the IBM, which still is not hot at all.
I would say you could comfortably put the laptop in you lap very easily for the first 4 hours.
After that, unless you have thick pants or like the extra warmth, I'd suggest putting it on a table.
The Powerbook is very, very quiet, especially when cool.
When it heats up after prolonged use the fan will kick in more often and make it a little louder.
But still it is much more quiet than the IBM.Overall-  I'd HIGHLY recommend this to anyone except gamers.
I'm highly satisfied with this purchase and I hope you will be to if you decide to buy it.EDIT- 10/5/06I guess this edit is just for people wanting to buy this computer used.
Let me first start off by saying I still give this product 5 stars.
It is a beautiful machine and very capable.Since this review I've upgraded the RAM to the documented max, which is 1.25 gigs.
My system runs smooth as ever.
Also my hard drive failed at about 2 years, fortunately I was able to back up my files due to being warned in advance by OS X.  I do not contribute this to Apple though since I have treated my laptop roughly, bringing it everywhere with me (it is such a small machine after all!)
I've been a Windows/Unix user all my life.
This is my first Mac and I love it.Pros :- Mac OS X is way more stable than any Microsoft Windows available- Did you know that Mac OS X is UNIX-based?
I love real unix shell.- Light & small- Slot-loading optical drive is better than the regular one, IMO- Wi-Fi 802.11b/g + bluetooth now included- &uuml;ber-long battery life.
My 5-month old battery lasts about 3 hours when I'm just browsing the web (wifi-on, bluetooth-on)- not likely to get infected by virus/malware/spyware.- iLife suite included- supports dual display - I use this PB as a desktop replacement- high quality soundcard - i've seen some PC laptop that has crappy soundcard.
It's bad to the point that your MP3 sound really badCons :- Admit it, there are less software for Mac OS X.
Make sure that you know everything you need has Mac version available.
It's tad slow on this 1.33GHz cpu.- Software running on Mac is not as optimized as it should.- This is the cheapest powerbook available.
It's LCD screen isn't as good as 15"/17" ones.
It's acceptable, reliable but you cannot expect something as good as- 256 meg of ram is NOT enough for you to run regular software smoothly.
Consider adding at least another 256.- internal fan is sometime annoying when you do heavy graphics/calculation.
You cannot watch DVD fullscreen without headphone.
Well, first I'd like to say that I feel honored to be the first one writing a review of this wonderful laptop.I purchased this Powerbook G4 on tuesday - just one day after Apple announced the new Powerbook lineup.
I had been considering going back to apple for a new laptop for quite some time, but seeing new faster specs for the same price as the last revision was what did it for me!
I custom ordered mine from the Apple Store on tuesday and it shipped out late Thursday night/Friday morning.
It shipped out from Taiwan, headed over to Alaska, then through a few other states and finally to me in NJ....This powerbook is a work of art; even the packaging.
It has gorgeous features, fluid graphic motion, VERY speedy processor, GREAT battery life - I get about 4.5 hrs.
Every other laptop I've ever had developed this squeaky spacebar so I don't blame apple -- its probably just the result of how I type.
I highly recommend this laptop for its size and portability.
It's durable finish, great cooling - yes its warm to the touch, but by no means will you burn yourself as others have suggested in past reviews of their previous version of this powerbook.
CD-ROM drive is zippy, magnetic lid clasp mechanism is a marvel, breathing (dimming and getting brighter) LED light on the lid-open button when the computer is in sleep mode is great....everything is great.This laptop opens Corel Painter 8 within 3 seconds which I consider amazing considering my 1.3Ghz P4 desktop PC can only open it in about 10-15 seconds!
This computer flies through everything it does and it certainly could be a desktop replacement.
The casing is sturdy and shines like a new penny!
The apple illuminates on the back side of the display showing everyone in a subdued manner that you chose the best.
Even their power supply/cable design is astounding - having the option to extend it if you need more cable length is great.
There is a charging status ring where the cable plugs into the side of the laptop which is orange when charging and green when fully charged.
To check the battery status, you can push a small button on the battery which will light up a series of LED lights on the battery to indicate how full a charge it holds.
Amazing!I'm glad to be back in the Apple world and look forward to getting a G5 tower to replace my aging PC in the coming year or so.Wow I love this Powerbook!
This computer rocks, It is really fast.
And so easy to use and customize.It's over priced.
It should cost around a thousand.
(made in china but designed in California).First of all this is a great product, I bought that as a gift for a friend.I'm a P.C.
guy, I'm definitively buying one for myself but at a local apple store see below why :After switching it on; I discovered that there was a dead pixel a bright green dot on the screenVery annoying your eyes always look at that spot.After visiting my local Apple store (waoooo !!!
As you have only one, we are unable to send a replacementfor the Apple PowerBook Notebook 12" M9183LL/A.
"Don't get me wrong AMAZON has a great customer service, but in this case they should listed in the product description.
That this product may come with deadpixels and if you have less than 3 deadpixels consecutive you are screwed.
(what is the definition of consecutive ?
)If they had put that warning, I'm wondering how many customer will still buy any electronic equipment with LCD display on amazonSo my advise is buy locally at your apple store.
Test it right away, or even if you notice any deadpixel, you can always return it to your local store
I've always used Windows/x86 computers, but recently I decided to make the switch to Apple and OS X.  I thoroughly researched the Powerbook G4 and found that no PC laptop manufacturer could match the Powerbook's feature set and low weight for the same price.
So I determined that Powerbooks are not overpriced, as is sometimes claimed.
The only place where the Powerbook SEEMED to lag behind was in the processor speed.
I was concerned that the PB (1.33GHz) wouldn't be as fast as a Windows notebook (some of which run at 3Ghz or more.
)The only way to find out was to go to the Apple store in my hometown and play with a Powerbook in person.
After about 20 minutes of opening lots of programs concurrently, watching videos and listening to music, etc, I knew my concerns about the computer's speed were unfounded.
)So now I have my 12" Powerbook and I am very happy with my purchase.
Some have called it a functional work of art, and I feel I can agree with that assessment - it's a beautiful computer.
I searched the internet and found Mac OS X applications to replace the ones I used under Windows, and they are as good or better.
Many OS X applications are open source and free to use.
The operating system is beautiful and runs smoothly even when multitasking.When I'm at home, I connect the PB to a Dell 21" LCD monitor running at 1600x1200 resolution, and a wireless keyboard and mouse.
The PB's graphics processor has no trouble driving my monitor at that resolution.
I also use a Firewire external hard disk.
Everything is such a breeze to set up.
For the most part, you just plug your hardware in, and it works without installing drivers.On the road, I don't suffer from the 12" display.
It's bright and clear, no dead pixels on my unit.
It's a bit hard to have more than one window open at a time on such a small screen, so prepare to do a lot of switching (which can be accomplished by pressing F9 and clicking your desired window - so easy!)
Sure, I'd like a bigger screen, but the portability outweighs that for me.
I'm sure the 15" PB is equally good if you weigh the relative importances differently.I still have a lot to learn about my new Powerbook, but I already feel comfortable using it.
It's only been a few days, but I'm 'used to' OS X and its applications.In conclusion, I'm absolutely satisfied with my purchase.
If you're considering a Powerbook, go to an Apple store nearby and try one out.
But come back to Amazon.com when it's time to buy.
I've been using desktop PC's for many years, with occassional exposure to Macs throughout college.
I work as a software engineer developing Java applications on a UNIX platform.
Several of my coworkers develop exclusively on their 17-inch Powerbooks and have been raving about the user-centered design.
They eventually got through to me and I purchased the 12-inch Powerbook model.To begin with, it's extremely solid and compact.
The aluminum case seems resilient to scratches and can probably take a bit of abuse (I've only had mine for a week, I'll give it time).
The display is clear and crisp, a pleasure to look at.
I use a 19-inch LCD for my desktop, and switching to my 12-inch Powerbook display causes me no grief.I purchased my model from a local retailer and added 512MB of RAM, which I strongly recommend since 256MB is ridiculously low for modern OS' and applications.
The system is very responsive and handles the load I put on it (web browser, iTunes, etc.)
MacOS is a pleasure to work with.The size of the notebook is great.
I can tote it around the house (Airport Extreme gets incredible reception) without feeling like I'm lugging a 10 pound dumbbell - the Powerbook weighs under 5 pounds.
And with energy savings enabled I get over 4 hours battery usage.--Update after 6 monthsI'm still loving my PowerBook, but have developed one issue that's become a big concern.
The display hinges are over-tightened and may be suceptible to mechanical failure.
I've ordered a "Glide Kit" from RadTech to condition to the hinges to prevent breakage.
It's something you may want to consider doing, too, should you purchase this outstanding machine.
This is my first Apple computer and I am asking myself why did I waited so long.
I am a part time wedding photographer and avid computer hobbyist.
After much research, I decided to buy my first Apple computer, a 12" Powerbook.
First of all the Powerbook is a piece of art.
It is solid, elegant and very well designed.
The keyboard feels good, the screen is bright and clear.
Te battery life is among the best, I get about 4 hours with the Airport Extreme enabled.
The Powerbook came with a great suite of software.If you decide to buy a powerbook, make sure you buy additonal ram for it.
256 mb is not enough, get a least a 512.
I really like this machine, the small format is great for carrying it everywhere, it is reasonably light and battery life is excellent.
However, OS X is still rather slow sometimes, compared to Windows you often feel like trying to run in molasses... 30 Gigs are really not that much nowadays, if you have any media files, you will fill the hd in no time.
I get 26-28 kbps connections where the old windows PC using the same exact phone line gets around 40 regularly.This machine does not come with a wireless card, but I installed the Airport Extreme, and got another severe dissapointment.
You only get 4 bars if you are like 20 inches away from the base station (not feet, inches)...
Try to wander further than 20 feet in clear sight, no walls or other obstacles, and you will get 1 bar, and no connectivity whatsoever.
So you might as well just cave in, whip out your trusty ethernet cable, and curse the $70 you blew on Apple's "Extreme" ripoff.
After my computer crashed, for about the third time, I resolved never to purchase another PC or Microsoft product.
For years I put up with substandard programs from that company, all the while thinking that I had little choice in the matter.
Sure there was Apple, but aren't they the Betamax (I've really aged myself with that reference...) of the computer world?
It wasn''t until I used a friends Power book that I realized how wrong I had been.Over the course of several months I had many conversations with diehards, and recent converts alike, who all echoed the same message; Mac's don't crash.
It seemed too good to be true, but then again, Microsoft seems too bad to be true, and yet...So, through my school I found an awesome deal on an iBook G4 (which I am using to write this review).
I upgraded the RAM, the HD, and installed the Airport Extreme card, + the applecare warranty extension, all for less than $1200!!!
Ofcourse, this was through my university, so non-students may not be able to find such a good deal.
However, the internet is full of great deals.At any rate, I love my iBook G4.
It's light and sturdy, it looks great, and the battery lasts forever (I get 4 hours of use even with the performance set at high).
My previous laptop was a Sony VAIO that gave me three years of outstanding performance, but like an old dog with a busted hip, it was time to retire the old girl.
I expect to get great use out of my iBook, and with the Applecare protection plan, despite some other reviews, I will.So, if you too are completely fed up with the Microsoft juggernaught/monopoly, it's probably time for a regime change...  step up to a mac, and you will wonder why you didn't make the switch sooner.
iBook is the consumer notebook computer, which Apple offers.
I actually custom-configured mine at Apple.com, so mine varies slightly from the specs of the standard model listed here.
It is the same G4 processor, but I have a 60 GB hard drive, airport extreme card, bluetooth module, and I upgraded the iBook to 768 MB of memory.This iBook is a great way to step into the world of Mac.
However, even a veteran Mac user will find an iBook a great machine.
Do not allow the 1.07 GHZ chip to scare you.
Furthermore, you can view all your favorite DVDs and burn CDs.
The size of the iBook is one of the fantastic features.
This notebook is small and light.
I use my iBook all over the house with the airport extreme card I added.
I might sit at the dining room table, on the couch, on the living room floor, in the office, or in my bedroom.I do recommend you add some memory to the iBook, which can add yourself.
The owners manual provides some instructions.
I would recommend adding a 512 MB stick, which will bring you up to 768 MB, but even adding a 256 MB stick, would be good.The iBook obviously runs Mac's OS X Panther (operating system).
OS X is fantastic, with a lot of great features such as expose, iCalendar, Sherlock, etc.
However, the iBook includes other Apple software titles too.
iLife '04 is included, which has iTunes, iPhoto, IMovie, and iDVD.
iMovie and iDVD are the easiest consumer applications for making movies and burning DVDs.
Everyone loves iTunes, and iPhoto is hands down the best way to organize your photos.
What is so great about this?
You're iBook is ready for all of this out of the box!
Finally, Appleworks is included with the iBook.
Appleworks is a somewhat out of date program, but it can still get your word processing, spreadsheet, and other tasks performed.
However, if you want a top quality office suite, I would recommend you purchase Microsoft Office 2004 for Mac.Back to the hardware, the video out on the iBook is the only thing somewhat less than satisfactory in my opinion.
It has a mini-DVI output, and it includes an adapter, so you can connect an external display for mirroring via VGA connector.
However, the notebook's LCD must remain on the same time, cutting your video memory in half.
It isn't a huge problem for me, but the iBook does not have the extended desktop feature, when using an external monitor, that the Powerbook enjoys.Overall, the iBook 1.07 GHZ G4 system is an amazingly portable notebook computer with acceptable performance.
The included Apple software will keep you occupied, organized, and entertained.
Ever since my company finally sprang for a new iBook about five months ago, I've been happy as a clam.
This 12&quot; model hums, with delightful ergonomics and Apple's fabulous iLife &amp; OS X software suite.
This thing is so light at 4.9 pounds that I've essentially stopped using my 7.5 pound, 14&quot; Toshiba clunker, even though the Toshiba is supposedly faster and with a bigger screen.
The screen on the iBook is plenty big for 95% of tasks -- from reading web pages to writing reports on the go.
It's also exceptionally bright and sharp.
OS X's Rendezvous technology, which quickly and easily and automatically connects to networks, printers and Wifi (with the Airport card) is a dream.I particularly love Safari, Apple's user-friendly web browser that doesn't get gunked up with endless popup ads, viruses and other junk.
It's so much snappier and less buggy than the Toshiba that sometimes I have to pinch myself.The battery lasts 4 hours -- more than double my Toshiba.
And it looks 10 times cooler, to boot.
It's the ultimate coffee shop accessory (especially one with free Wifi).And it is especially convenient for me as a reporter on the go.
Having 2.6 fewer pounds to lug around every day is great, and it actually feels better on my lap.
(I'm currently typing this while lying in bed using my wireless network, which the iBook sensed and connected to automatically).
How cool is that?You can find laptops for less, certainly.
I bought my Toshiba at a day after Thanksgiving deal at Bestbuy a couple years back for five hundred smackers.
But you won't find one that is this light, with this great battery life and this ease of use anywhere else.
And when you are basically talking about an extension of your brain, eleven hundred smackers is pretty darn cheap.Enjoy!
Not only are Apple Computers very easy to use and proven not to brake as much, but they look great any where.
They are very powerfull and light laptops, and if you are wondering, the Ibook G4 is ten timmes better than the ibook before the G4.When i purchased my labtop, i upgraded the RAM on it to 512MB because at the momment all you need is 256MB of RAM, but thinking ahead, you will need 512MB.
30GB is definatly enough memory unless you are going to do a ton of imovies.I suggest that you buy it over the phone from apple though because they will give you deals for a lower cost.
I purchased a PowerBook 15" 1.5Ghz 128VRAM computer around Christmas.
I've built several IBM/PC-based desktop systems, from my first 486DX266 to my most recent 3.04Ghz Dell rebuild (looks like a Dell, but doesn't quack like one).
I know what "right" looks like, and Apple has finally gotten it right.The design of the iBook and PowerBook is top-notch.
A very tight chassis, maximized screen, and overall clean finish with each model.
The software took this Microsoft-handicapped user about an hour to figure out, but if you work with it enough, you'll find you can learn something new every day.
Reliability is also the best I've ever seen.
There are no "blue screens of death" on Mac's.
My wife's old G3 displayed a "sad Mac" once, but that was on a Mac from another era.
I haven't heard of anyone having "show-stopper" problems with the G4's.I had a few peripherals that I didn't want to part with, like my Dell Axim.
PocketMac (a 3rd-party answer to PocketPC and ActiveSync) allows me to sync data between PowerBook and PDA effortlessly.
The keyboard, mouse, and even monitor can all be used with the PowerBook when I'm at my desk.Who needs computer speakers when you can play iTunes through your home stereo (with an Airport Express in the mix).
When it comes to games, quality headphones do the trick.The 80GB HD is a lot smaller than what I have in my Dell, but I've invested in a Lacie D2 external drive which puts me at ease when storage is a concern.With Office for Mac, I can open, edit, and save any OfficeXP file I can find.
No compatibility issues whatsoever.WARNING:  If you intend to play PC games on a Mac by using VirtualPC... DON'T!
That's not what VirtualPC was designed for, and the results will show that.
If you want to play games on a Mac, visit the Aspyr website and buy the Mac versions.The price was higher than what some would expect to pay for a comparable PC laptop.
Extras are expensive, and are probably where Apple really makes their money.
Custom configurations are non-refundable/non-returnable, as clearly stated on the Apple website.
If you customize (which you have to, if you want the 128MB video card), plan on handing over another $300+ for the AppleCare Protection Plan.
That'll give you 3 years service and support - the alternative to being stuck with a lemon six months after purchase - if you're unfortunate enough.Me?
I guess I got lucky according to one reviewer.
Everything worked out of the box, and continues to work as advertised.
From what I can tell, that's not lucky - that's the norm.As I use the PowerBook more frequently, I find myself going to my Dell less and less.
Don't be afraid of taking the step and getting an Apple notebook.
The other ones aren't worth it.
I've had a Dell and a Toshiba, and both have failed me.
I don't even want to mention my grandma's HP.
Powerbook is quite simply the best.
Its design blows the mind, with no little doors or anything that could get caught on something.
The Apple Experience starts when you open the box.
Apple is the BMW of computers.
When you finish calibrating the battery the way they say, you're ready to have fun.
The apple logo lights up in back.
You don't notice it, you're having so much fun.
A plenthora of the latest ports (Apple didn't bother with the old ports nobody will use), you can hook up your USB 2 and Firewire devices.
Inside Apple has given you the best software.
Dell will load your laptop up with cheesy shareware software, where you have to buy it after 15 days.
iLife 04 with iTunes (manage music), iPhoto (manage photos), iMovie (edit movies), iDVD (make DVDs), and GarageBand (MAKE/edit music) blows away any software from the Windows world.
OmniGraffle is a really cool drawing program, and GraphicConverter is a great graphics program.
Mail, iCal, Address Book, Safari, and the other built-in apple programs are very nice.
Safari is better than Internet Explorer for browsing, and Mail is far nicer than Outlook Express.Worried about not having enough software for Mac?
There's piles of high quality stuff for Mac.
There is literally nothing you can do on a PC that you can't do on a Mac, often far better.
Even with games, where the Mac is slightly lacking, you can get Command and Conquer, Warcraft 3, Myst, Age of Empires, and many more popular titles.Mac OSX was rated the best operating system according to PC World magazine, and its not hard to see why.
You will be smitten too.Mac simply don't get viruses, spyware, and randomly crash right when you're writing the most important report of your career.
This is probably one of the biggest pluses.
No more blue screen of death.The built in wireless was a great plus.
When I plugged in the mac, it found our wireless network instantly.
Did you know, we had not been able to figure out how to do file sharing with our PCs.
We plug in the mac, and it found our other PCs right then and there.
I was file sharing in minutes!The backlit keyboard is sooo cool.
Its automatic, and it is just stunning.Watching DVDs is great.
The battery actually lasts long enough to finish the movie, and the controls aren't fussy and impossibly tricky.
Its a slot-loading drive (see picture in product description)Overall, you can really tell someone was thinking when they made this computer.
What a winner!I don't want to sound like a salesperson, so there are some cons:-Won't run your windows software.
You will have to look around for some replacements.
Most of the commonly used stuff is built right in, so you can read (and create) PDFs, manage your digital stuff, get mail, surf the web, read Word documents, and much much more.
You may have to find some more specialized programs for Excel and Powerpoint files, Graphics editing, etc...-ummm.....-The mouse has just one button-umm.....-Mac OSX takes a little getting used to, but then you'll figure it out after a day or twoYou will be sorry if you choose to buy a Wintel (Dell, Compaq, HP, Gateway, Sony, etc...)notebook.
When you spend the first 10 hours after you buy your computer on tech support, you will remember this review.
The presentation of this unit when it arrived was very impressive.
The packaging, the body, the little details that Apple has thought of were very nice.
However, I had wanted this machine mainly to do some digital photography work and had been attracted by the included software (e.g.
iPhoto does not compare to My Pictures.
It is cumbersome, difficult to file pictures in a useful way and tedious to use.
It might be useful to show pictures to your family in a relatively unorganized fashion, but with all of the other excellent slide show software out there that do a good job, you would think that Apple would get the hint.
And finally, when I loaded over 20GB worth of photos into Pictures, iPhoto went into some kind of spin where it never stopped trying to load the photos.
I was finally able to stop it when I dumped the photos.I had this unit for two weeks and while I had it it froze up on me twice.
I decided that this was not something that I needed to have especially since for me this was a switch from Windows XP on an Acer which has worked very well.
Thus, I decided to retun the unit and am now waiting for Amazon to return my money.
I've had this computer for almost three months now.
I upgraded to the 128MB videocard and 1GB ram.
I also installed Abobe Creative Suite CS, Office 2004 for Mac, Virtual PC 6 with Win2000 and Red Hat Linux, and Macromedia Stdio 2004.
I also have lots of IBM-made Windows XP Pro laptops and workstations.
Windows XP drives me nuts most of the times.
As an Italian, I do appreciate beauty and aesthetics, and I certainly agree with Steve Jobs when he says about Microsoft, &quot;They have no taste.&quot; When you compare the elegance of MacOS with WinXP, it's like comparing a Michelangelo painting with a six-year old kid's drawing.
And I won't even mention the beauty of the machine itself or even the attention to details in the packaging of the unit.The OS is rock-solid.
I may have Photoshop, InDesign, Dreamweaver, iPhoto open at the same time, and the OS hums through all that like a Lexus at 65mph on the I5.
This my not be the fastest PC out there, but it certainly does not feel any slower than my 3.0GHz, 1GB, 80GB, 7200rpm IBM intellistation.
It is surely more stable though (and quieter too).
The thing is, this machine, unlike a Windows box, does not require a Norton or McAfee Internet security suite to bog down your system resurces.
To give you an example, my virtualPC win2000 was fine until I installed McAfee Internet security suite, which slowed it down a bit (well, maybe five bits).
It is actually amusing to use virtual Win2000 on top of MacOS.
When you see the sloppines of Windows-based programs, unwanted balloon tips popping up all the time bragging about the new exciting features of the OS or warning you about a new virus and so forth, it is a pleasure to go back to Mac OS and just do whatever you need to do with ease.
The Apple Mail program has a better spam filter than Outlook on my IBM.
The machine goes to sleep in one second and wakes up from sleep in two seconds, and even when on, it's whisper quiet.
When the processor is working at full blast, you can hear the noise, but it's still much quieter than my IBM Boeing-747-take-off kind of noise.
Safari is fast and reliable, iLife is a pleasure to use, when inserting a previously seen - but unfinished - DVD into the slot, the DVD player asks you whether you want to start watching the movie from the beginning or from where you left off.
Isn't that what every DVD player on the planet should do?
Yet, not only do Windows-based DVD player not do that, they either have some of the ugliest interfaces in the software world (WinDVD) or install a lot of crapware on your system that makes ad windows pop up all the time (real player).
if you are a developer, you'll love the xCode and python programs too.
They come free with the machine.The machine is not perfect, though; hence only four stars.
Text looks crisper to me in Win XP than it does in Mac OS, even though Microsoft drives me nuts with its persistence in using small size fonts in this day and age.
Sure, I know i can select extra large fonts in Display Panel, and I can change font size within specific applications, but it's still a pain in the rear and time consuming.
Fonts on the Mac are already of the perfect size (Apple, unlike MS, seems to grasp the concept that we are not using 640x480 screens anymore) and a pleasure to read, even though they could be a bit crisper (that could be a subjective thing, though.
Some people swear by the smoothness of Mac fonts...).
BTW, you will have to know how to set up the Clear Font option in Win XP because it's not active by default, which makes text in Win XP horrible.
The second complaint about this powerbook is relative to the lid hatch that lets the lid pop open sometimes.
I know there's a DIY way of fixing it.
I just didn't go the Apple discussion board yet, to read how to implement it.
overall, unless you are into gaming, you should definetly ditch Windows in favor of Mac OS.
It will be like leaving the Venetian casino in Vegas and going to Piazza San Marco in Venice.
When you see the real thing, you will be asking yourself, &quot;Why was I at the Venetian in the first place?&quot;
I just can't say enough good things about this computer.
I bought this laptop back in May 2004, and I have been doting on it ever since.
I am a college student majoring in Graphic Design, so the purchase of this computer was a must.
I am generally a PC user, so I thought that the switch to a MAC may be harder than I would hope.
That didn't seem to be the case at all!
I learned this computer and all it's commands in less than one week - with the help of a good MAC book.When it is delievered to your door, it comes in a beautiful case - it's like opening a brand new mini-car!
All of my friends were around and I felt like I was unwrapping the crown jewel of computers!
All of my friends knew how much this baby cost, so they were just as excited to see if my money was worth it!
Well, I decided right then and there that I would fall in love with this computer the second I hit the power button.
Most of us being PC users, we found that MAC OS X was way beyond Windows XP -  in quality, solidness, and pure asthetics.The software that comes with the computer is great!
- Phone support only last 90 days after you buy this, and when you are buying something with this sort of price tag, you need to take all precautions in safeguarding it.
The plan extends warranty and support for 3 years!- Office for MAC!!
I love this version of Microsoft Office.
It's kinda strange, but I actually feel like this version of Microsoft Office is the ONLY version of Office!
!When you decide to purchase this computer, you won't be dissappointed.
The screen is absolutely stuning (I have not had the problems a few people claim to have about white sploches on the screen.)
When you have this little beauty sitting on your desk or in your lap, you will be envied by all!
It's worked great for over 3 years without any problems.
My only negative comment is that the speaker volume isn't as loud as my old PowerBook Pismo.
Overall, highly recommended to any Mac lover.
But I wonder what Apple has it in store for the PowerBook G5 next year.
This is the best 15&quot; notebook I've seen, and I've seen a lot of notebooks in this form factor.
Price out a similarly equipped PC notebook and the Apple comes in cheaper.
The screen quality problems have been solved, tho there definitely were some problems with the previous generation of this laptop.
The performance is very impressive with the high end grapics card and speedy hard drive.
Its biggest advantage over PC laptops is the operating system.
Mac OS X is far ahead of Windows in terms of stability, speed, features, lack of infections and compatibility.
Unlike what the reviewer says about the UK, there is no service charge for warranty repairs in the States.
Actually, I'm surprised there's a charge in the UK.
If I had to pay for warranty repairs, I'd be pretty steamed!
My Fujitsu Lifebook (which I loved!)
died on me w/a shorted out motherboard that was impossible to access to fix (w/out the help of few $100s just to open her up).
I found it just easier to purchase a new notebook than repair.Yes, the Powerbook was an expensive purchase.
In retrospect, a 12" probably would have been fine.
I also don't know that I need the DVD burner - but I have it.The speed is great.
Set-up was a breeze, as was connection to my pre-existing wireless network.
As always, Apple's packaging and design are flawless.
The keyboard is wonderful (and I like the backlighting).Testing out iDVD was fun.
'Star Wars' looked great on the screen (ok, maybe a 12" wouldn't have cut it for something like that).
Still lot more features to play with (iMovies, iPhoto, etc) that I won't/don't use everyday....but fun to have.Security is pretty sound - and was even talked out of purchasing a virus pack by the folks @ the Apple Store.Though I had an early version of a Mac, it's taking a bit of time to reacclimate to a non-windows unit.
I have some issues w/the Mac version of Office - but that is for a software review later.Ok - so why only 4 Stars?
I've decided it's very tough to give technology prodcuts 5 stars.
I've done so in the past and been burned.
But I've also decided not to review them immeidately anymore also.
Had the Powerbook 2 mos and very happy w/it.
In my mind - 5 star worthy.
In print - I'll hedge my bets and stick w/ 4.
I have been your stereotypical gamer/geek/pc user since i was in 8th grade, and all the time have been deftly opposed to anything with an apple logo on it.
I had always accepted Macintosh as a sort of "stupid person's computer," since we had used them in grade school to a)type things, b)play oregon trail on game tuesdays, and c)learn to type.
Also, while growing up my friend's dad had a Performa PPC that he used to a)surf the internet (what little internet there was back then), b)taxes on quicken, and c)check his stocks.Now fast-forward.
I had just finished my first semsester of college, and i needed a laptop.
At first i run to the nearest box store and pick up a thin and light HP notebook, which had respectable specs for what i needed.
60GB hard drive, 512MB DDR Ram, 1.5Ghz Centrino, and an (advertised) over 5 hours battery life.
for only $1399, i grabbed it in an instant.
I had it for 5 days.
Right out of the box i booted it up and it ran as slow as my roommates 466 Mhz Celeron that we pulled out of a dumpster b/c he is a cheapskate.
10 seconds to boot up Office?
I had just spent $1400 on a cool-looking piece of plastic that get beat out by 5 year old celerons.
Then that amazing battery life was actually around 2-2.5 hours.
All that low voltage technology and it can't even get past 3 hours?
My god i needed something else.
So i returned it promptly and started shopping again.The School Bookstore has always had a plethora of apple products on display because they are one of only two apple dealers in the city (what, Bozeman MT is a small town!).
They definitely looked infinitely more sexy than the Performa that my friend and I had grown up with (playing Gridz-- Yeeehaw!)
I spent about a week researching this 1.5 Ghz Powerbook.
about 19 of the 20 Amazon review gave it 5 stars or (if they could) higher.
I thought i would regret the incompatibilities between XP and OS X, but instead, i spend all my time thinking to myself "Why the hell didn't MICROSOFT think of this!!!"
This is hands down the tightest software i have ever had the pleasure to use.
OS X is not simple, it is logical.
Unlike XP, there are never unavailable options because of your incompatible hardware, and best of all: no baloon info!
When was the last time a PC user actually needed to be reminded that they had just removed their Usb Key???
Or, in case of a re-install of XP which i did more often than not, Usually an hour or so is spent making sure the OS worked with the computer as best as possible.
No tweaking, no secret options to increase performance.
OS-X is a PC user's dream!
Imagine an OS, out of the box, that is already a finely tuned and stripped of its useless features and software, that doesn't crash, doesn't need drivers, doesn't need setting up, and best of all: WORKS!!!
If apple can find an easier way to communicate this with the PC population, i'm sure they will have majority market share in a matter of years.I love my Powerbook!
I'm sure if you're reading this, you've read other reviews that go through all the "duh" features and battery life, blah blah.
Actually, unless you will use this on your lap for very long periods of time (99% of the time it will be on a library table or airplane tray) it get warm(not hot) but i guess it gets annoying unless its cold out.
Also, if apple can create a computer like this, they can definitely make a longer battery.
i don't think 5-real life hours is impossible with the additional use of lithium polymer batteries to fill up any extra space inside (like the iPod battery) Also, the screen, when closed, is a wee bit wobbly.
I want to see AIRTIGHT seals on the lid, but, again, this really doesn't matter.
the 12" version is rock solid in this aspect, with the lid closing perfectly tight.
I guess it's just an ailment of having a big screen.
But these are very minor gripes for a guy wishing apple to create the perfect laptop.
Although not quite perfect [yet] This is still far superior to any PC notebook on the market today.
One more thing: two buttons and a scroll function on the touchpad.
Seriously apple, even that crappy HP had that!But, my minor issues aside, all you need to know is this: I hated macs, am a very literate PC guy (CCNA, A+ certification) who never thought he'd buy a mac.
I haven't "switched over", persay, but my mac is now "my computer," and the pc is kept for stuff that doesn't work on the powerbook.
An to think, a month ago i was telling friends that Apple should drop computers and just sell iPods!
Apple should be on top of the market with products like this.
I bought a PowerBook 12&quot; 867MHz about nine months ago, had a brief fling with a Dell that my work issued me, and went back to the Mac.
After reading the in-depth review at [...] ([...]) I went out and purchased the laptop from the Apple store with 1GB DDR RAM and 5400RPM hard drive.
Everything about this system is stunning -- the screen, keyboard, design, and power.
I use to own a Toshiba 15.4" and this thing is LIGHTER than the Toshiba.
I'm a new user of OS X and I absolutely love it.
I recommend buying this thing if you want a large screen notebook that is actually portable, unlike most desktop replacements from PC makers.
Amazon offers it with free shipping and no tax in most states.
I've had it for six months.
Prior to this, I had been a PC user all my life.I bought the Apple based on the strength of reviews from legions of friends in the design field who were early Mac converts and my desire just to try something different.
I use it primarily for editing photos and video.
I do LIKE this machine alot -- it's beautiful and it's a genuinely solid performer.
But the price/performance ratio -- despite ramping up to 1.5 MB of RAM from the paltry 512MB standard-- just isn't there.
No way around it.Photo editing bench tests for this machine versus similarly priced PC products prove its limitations.
It's a fairly slow machine for the price.
As for the Operating System, the Mac package is interesting (even fun at times) but remarkably less advanced and intuitive than I expected and has been touted.Believe me, the "switch" is not as easy as Apple would have you believe.
And surprisingly there's absolutely no support for those who take the leap.
You need to decide if it's worth relearning everything you know about personal computing.
Personally, I haven't found the payoff outweighs than the hassle.
Yet.I look back on what I could have got for the same money from HP or another PC maker, and I now feel a little stung and underwhelmed by this machine.
But it's something of a sheep in wolf's clothing.Think Different?
I've owned my 17&quot; 1.5 PB for about three months now.
I use it both on the road, and as my main desktop computer.
It is by far the most capable and useful computer I have ever owned.I have used both Macs and PCs everyday for the past 2 years (I am a creative director, and use both machines depending upon the nature of the work).
I am not Mac centric: PCs have many nice features, are generally faster than Macs, and the software is now pretty much up to parity.With that being said, I still prefer the Mac OS to Windows.
Everything works extremely well, the user experience is far more polished and user-centric, and it NEVER crashes.
My last laptop was a G3 and it was a stinker.
I convinced myself that laptops were inherently less stable than their full-sized cousins.
This machine is solid as they come.Speaking of solid: the keyboard is easily the best I have ever used on a laptop.
The action is tight and crisp, and the placement is comfortable.
And, the fiber optic backlighting (when ambient lighting is down) has been a pleasure.
I can sit in bed with the lights off and play poker, surf the web, or write with no problems.The ports (of which there are many) are well placed, and seated extremely well (my old G3 shed ports like a molting emu).
Since I come and go a lot, and don't have a docking station, the port integrity is REALLY important.
So far, happy happy.The display is sharp and bright, with a good viewing angle.
Its 17&quot;, and runs at a max resolution of 1400x900.
I am a graphic designer, and have been working on 300DPI images in Photoshop, and while I would be happier with a bigger screen, this 17&quot; is more than adequate.
At home I hook my PB up to a Dell 17&quot; flat panel, and the graphics card (which I raised to 128 megs of video) has no problem running both the native display and the Dell.
Tons of working room, and great refresh.Battery life is ok.
The big screen is a power hog.
BUT, the batteries recharge very quickly.
And the little AC adaptor is a gorgeous design, with a very very long cord.
You might think about getting an extra: one for home and one for the travel bag.The superdrive is fast and responsive.
I don't know how Apple fit it in there, but its there, and I use it regularly, either burning archival CDs, DVDs, and getting music to the iPod.I am trying to think of negatives.
The 17&quot; PB is a bit heavier, but then again, it's a bit bigger than any 15&quot;.
So, weight to me is not a detriment.
What's a couple of pounds anyway?
The size is bigger, but hey, I wanted a 17&quot; screen, so I am not really expecting to sit in coach class and be able to open a Mile High Cinema Experience.
I'll just have to start working on getting into First Class.
:)All in all, a great computer.
The fact that you can carry it around, only triples its usefulness.
Combine it with a wireless network, and whoa, you can a killer portable entertainment center: email, web surfing, movie watching, music listening, anywhere you want.
This PB has surprised me again and again with its usefulness and versatility.
Completely, utterly five stars worth of laptop.
I've had this machine as my primary computer, traveling to six of the seven continents with it (haven't taken it to Africa), and generally putting a lot of use and miles on it.
I've replaced the battery after it didn't take as much of a charge, and a couple of years ago installed a larger hard drive.
Sure, I'd definitely buy a new Intel-based 17" but I haven't really felt the need yet.I've usually traveled with the laptop in a Brenthaven backpack designed for the 17" computer.
The screen real estate is always a wonderful thing, though I admit that if I'm in the back of the plane, then I generally read rather than take up all available room in opening this beast up.
I had my choice of getting a G5 desktop or the 17" PowerBook.
I struggled with the decision, primarily because I wanted those dual processors so badly.
I went for the PowerBook because of the portability...and come on, it's GORGEOUS.
I am absolutely thrilled I chose this laptop.
